---
date: '2017-02-02'
description: Dictionaries, tuples, saving data sets with pickle
published: false
title: Day 6
---

**Today**

* Making sense of your gene finder's output on the Salmonella data
* Exploring some new DNA!
* Computational art project kickoff

**For next time**

* Reading journal, Think Python 5.8-5.14, 6.5-6.11

## Loading new DNA

To load the new DNA contigs for our in-class activity, you need to pull the
latest changes from the `GeneFinder` upstream repository. If you never added
the upstream repository as a remote, you'll need to run:

``` bash
git remote add upstream https://github.com//{{site.course.github_owner}}/GeneFinder.git
```

You can check your list of remotes by running:

``` bash
git remote -v
```

After making sure that all your local changes to the GeneFinder repository are
committed and pushed, you can pull in the new data from upstream:

``` bash
git pull upstream master
```

Once you have the latest changes, you can load the new DNA using:

```
>>> from load import load_contigs
>>> contigs = load_contigs()
```

The variable contigs will be a list of
[contigs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contig) where each is encoded as a
two-item tuple. The first element of the tuple is the name of the contig, and
the second element of the tuple is the DNA sequence.

To access the elements of e.g. the 5th contig, you could unpack the tuple into
separate variables:

```
>>> name = contigs[5][0]
>>> dna_sequence = contigs[5][1]
>>> print(name)
Contig_37
```

Once we've loaded the raw DNA sequence, we still have some cleanup to do. In
addition to the expected nucleotides (A, C, T, and G), the sequence includes
some additional markers (K, M, S, R, W, V, and Y). These come from reading
errors generated by the DNA sequencing machine.

You should write a function to post-process the raw DNA sequence by replacing
the additional markers with a normal nucleotide. _Quick check:_  why not just
delete the markers?

You may also want to shorten the length of your DNA sequence so that your gene
finder program can run faster.

If you are finding that the output of your program is longer than the amount
of text that can fit in the terminal, you can redirect the output to a file.

``` bash
python gene_finder.py > output.txt
```
